# National Seismic Hazard Model for Norway and Svalbard

This study aims to develop a new probabilistic seismic hazard model for Norway and the Svalbard archipelago following recent advancements in earthquake hazard estimation, driven by new methods, tools, and more complex processing routines and calculations. Norway, located on the western edge of the stable Fennoscandian shield, experiences low to moderate seismicity, with events rarely exceeding magnitude 5.5. In contrast, Svalbard has seen moderately sized events close to population centers in recent years. The study area encompasses continental Norway and the Svalbard archipelago, including a 300 km perimeter. Hazard estimates are calculated using the OpenQuake Engine, with input data sourced from the Norwegian National Seismic Network and supplemented by other national and international catalogs. The catalog constitutes a significant improvement with the addition of five years of earthquake data, a lower minimum magnitude, automated quality assurance, and data harmonization with neighboring regions. The study is supplemented by a smoothed seismicity model, in addition to traditional area zonation, and the applied ground motion models are validated against local data records. The analysis results in an up-to-date and improved open-access evaluation of seismic hazard in Norway. This new hazard model supports better preparedness and enhances understanding of the economic and societal risks posed by earthquakes. The methods and input data used for the analysis will be presented, along with results, and discussed in the context of ESHM20 and other regional hazard assessments.

Workflows and supporting material will be uploaded at time of publication.
